### [Partition Equal Subset Sum](https://leetcode-cn.com/problems/partition-equal-subset-sum/)

**Tags:** #DynamicProgramming

#### Problem Description
Given a nonempty array `nums`, which only contains positive number. Find if the array can be divided into two parts such that the sum of each part is equal.
###### example
*Input:* nums = [1,5,11,5]
*Output:* true
*Explanation:* divide into [1,5,5] and [11].

#### Ideas
To satisfy two part sum are equal, then each part sum is half of total sum. If the total sum is an odd or the max number in the array is bigger than half of total sum, then it's can't satisfy the requirement.
This problem is similar to ***[[0-1 package problem]]***. What differs is that the total sum we chose can't exceed the capacity of the package in *0-1 package problem*, while the chosen number's sum must equal to half of total sum in this question. Similar to traditional *0-1 package problem*, we can use ***dynamic programming*** to solve this problem.
We use a two-dimensional array `boolean dp[n][half+1]` for dynamic programming. Where `n` is the length of `nums` and `half` is the half of total sum. We define `dp[i][j]`:
- `i` ranges from 0 to `n-1`, which means the subset(0, i) of `nums`.
- `j` ranges from 0 to `half`, which means if the subset(0, i) can constitute a sum of value `j`.
`dp[i][j]` is `true` if subset(0, i) of `nums` can constitute a sum of value `j`. Then `dp[n-1][half]` means in the whole array `nums`, if it can constitute a sum of half.
The state transition equation is as follows:
$$dp[i][j]=\begin{cases}
dp[i-1][j]\ ||\ dp[i-1][j-num[i]]&num[i]\leq j\\
dp[i-1][j]&num[i]>j
\end{cases}$$
`dp[i][j]` means we are deciding if we count `nums[i]` to constitute a sum of `j` for subset(0, i).
The upper case means: `nums[i]<=j`, if we not choose this number, then our result(can constitute or not) is equal to "if the subset(0, i-1) can constitute a sum of `j`", that is`dp[i-1][j]`. If we choose this number, then our result is equal to "if the subset(0, i-1) can constitute a sum of `j-num[i]`". Either of them is true, then we can constitute a sum of `j` by subset(0, i) of `nums`.
The lower case means: `nums[i]>j`, the number is bigger than the number(`j`) we want to constitute, so we can't choose. Our result is same as `dp[i-1][j]`.

##### Optimization of space
Observe the transition equation, we found that each line of our two-dimensional array `dp` only related to the previous line(`dp[i]` is decided by `dp[i-1]` only). So we can store the `dp` in only one line:
When we handle the new line `i`, the 1-dimensional array stores the `i-1` line data! For each line, we ranges `j` from `half` to 0. The new state transition equation is as follows:
$$dp[j]=dp[j]\ ||\ dp[j-nums[i]]$$
Since `j` ranges from `half` to 0, `dp[j]` or `dp[j-nums[i]` store the date of last line(`i-1`). After each round of `j`, we updated a line.

#### Algorithm
If `nums.length<2` or `sum(nums)` is odd or `max(nums)>sum(nums)/2`, return `false`.
Create a boolean array `dp[sum(nums)/2+1]`. For `i` in range from 0 to `num.length`, for `j` in range from `sum(nums)/2` to 0, if `dp[j]==true` or `dp[j-nums[i]==true`, the `dp[j]=true`.
Finally, return `dp[sum(nums)/2]`.

The detailed code is as follows
```java
public class p416 {
    public static boolean canPartition(int[] nums) {
        int len = nums.length;
        if (len < 2) {
            return false;
        }
        int totalSum = 0, half = 0, maxNum = 0;
        for (int num : nums) {
            totalSum += num;
            maxNum = Math.max(maxNum, num);
        }
        if (totalSum % 2 != 0 || totalSum / 2 < maxNum) {
            return false;
        }
        half = totalSum / 2;
        boolean[] dp = new boolean[half + 1];
        dp[0] = true;
        for (int i = 0; i < len; i++) {
            int num = nums[i];
            for (int j = half; j >= num; j--) {
                dp[j] = dp[j] | dp[j - num];
            }
        }
        return dp[half];
    }
}
```

#### Time&Space Complexity
**Time complexity:** The outer loop `nums.length`, the inner loop `sum(nums)/2`, so the total time complexity is `O(nums.length × sum(nums)/2)`
**Space complexity:** After **optimization**, the space we used are `sum(nums)/2`, so the total space complexity is `O(sum(nums)/2)`